“He commenced, and again related the very same things which he haddone at his first visit, without the least variation; which having done,he informed me of great judgments which were coming upon the earth,with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence; and that thesegrievous judgments would come on the earth in this generation. Havingrelated these things, he again ascended as he had done before.
“By this time, so deep were the impressions made on my mind, thatsleep had fled from my eyes, and I lay overwhelmed in astonishment atwhat I had both seen and heard. But what was my surprise when againI beheld the same messenger at my bedside, and heard him rehearse orrepeat over again to me the same things as before; and added a cautionto me, telling me that Satan would try to tempt me (in consequence ofthe indigent circumstances of my father’s family), to get the plates forthe purpose of getting rich. This he forbade me, saying that I must haveno other object in view in getting the plates but to glorify God, and mustnot be influenced by any other motive than that of building his kingdom;otherwise I could not get them.
“After this third visit, he again ascended into heaven as before, andI was again left to ponder on the strangeness of what I had just experienced; when almost immediately after the heavenly messenger had ascended from me for the third time, the cock crowed, and I found that daywas approaching, so that our interviews must have occupied the wholeof that night.
“I shortly after arose from my bed, and, as usual, went to the necessarylabors of the day; but, in attempting to work as at other times, I foundmy strength so exhausted as to render me entirely unable. My father, whowas laboring along with me, discovered something to be wrong with me,and told me to go home. I started with the intention of going to the house;but, in attempting to cross the fence out of the field where we were, mystrength entirely failed me, and I fell helpless on the ground, and for atime was quite unconscious of anything.
“The first thing that I can recollect was a voice speaking unto me, calling me by name. I looked up, and beheld the same messenger standingover my head, surrounded by light as before. He then again related untome all that he had related to me the previous night, and commanded meto go to my father and tell him of the vision and commandments whichI had received. 
“I obeyed; I returned to my father in the field, and rehearsed the wholematter to him. He replied to me that it was of God, and told me to go anddo as commanded by the messenger. I left the field, and went to the placewhere the messenger had told me the plates were deposited; and owingto the distinctness of the vision which I had had concerning it, I knewthe place the instant that I arrived there.